clang-tools-extra/docs/clang-tidy/checks/modernize/make-unique.rst, before:

.. title:: clang-tidy - modernize-make-unique

modernize-make-unique
=====================

This check finds the creation of ``std::unique_ptr`` objects by explicitly
calling the constructor and a ``new`` expression, and replaces it with a call
to ``std::make_unique``, introduced in C++14.

.. code-block:: c++

  auto my_ptr = std::unique_ptr<MyPair>(new MyPair(1, 2));

  // becomes

  auto my_ptr = std::make_unique<MyPair>(1, 2);

This check also finds calls to ``std::unique_ptr::reset()`` with a ``new``
expression, and replaces it with a call to ``std::make_unique``.

.. code-block:: c++

  my_ptr.reset(new MyPair(1, 2));

  // becomes

  my_ptr = std::make_unique<MyPair>(1, 2);

Options
-------

.. option:: MakeSmartPtrFunction

   A string specifying the name of make-unique-ptr function. Default is
   `std::make_unique`.

.. option:: MakeSmartPtrFunctionHeader

   A string specifying the corresponding header of make-unique-ptr function.
   Default is `<memory>`.

.. option:: IncludeStyle

   A string specifying which include-style is used, `llvm` or `google`. Default
   is `llvm`.

.. option:: IgnoreMacros

   If set to `true`, the check will not give warnings inside macros. Default
   is `true`.

.. option:: IgnoreDefaultInitialization

   If set to `false`, the check does not suggest edits that will transform
   default initialization into value initialization, as this can cause
   performance regressions. Default is `true`.

Commit message:

Added versions for clang-tidy check options

clang-tools-extra/docs/clang-tidy/checks/modernize/make-unique.rst, after:

.. title:: clang-tidy - modernize-make-unique

modernize-make-unique
=====================

This check finds the creation of ``std::unique_ptr`` objects by explicitly
calling the constructor and a ``new`` expression, and replaces it with a call
to ``std::make_unique``, introduced in C++14.

.. code-block:: c++

  auto my_ptr = std::unique_ptr<MyPair>(new MyPair(1, 2));

  // becomes

  auto my_ptr = std::make_unique<MyPair>(1, 2);

This check also finds calls to ``std::unique_ptr::reset()`` with a ``new``
expression, and replaces it with a call to ``std::make_unique``.

.. code-block:: c++

  my_ptr.reset(new MyPair(1, 2));

  // becomes

  my_ptr = std::make_unique<MyPair>(1, 2);

Options
-------

.. option:: MakeSmartPtrFunction (added in 15.0.0)

   A string specifying the name of make-unique-ptr function. Default is
   `std::make_unique`.

.. option:: MakeSmartPtrFunctionHeader (added in 15.0.0)

   A string specifying the corresponding header of make-unique-ptr function.
   Default is `<memory>`.

.. option:: IncludeStyle (added in 15.0.0)

   A string specifying which include-style is used, `llvm` or `google`. Default
   is `llvm`.

.. option:: IgnoreMacros (added in 15.0.0)

   If set to `true`, the check will not give warnings inside macros. Default
   is `true`.

.. option:: IgnoreDefaultInitialization (added in 15.0.0)

   If set to `false`, the check does not suggest edits that will transform
   default initialization into value initialization, as this can cause
   performance regressions. Default is `true`.
