clang-tools-extra/docs/clang-tidy/checks/modernize/use-std-format.rst, before:

.. title:: clang-tidy - modernize-use-std-format

modernize-use-std-format
========================

Converts calls to ``absl::StrFormat``, or other functions via
configuration options, to C++20's ``std::format``, or another function
via a configuration option, modifying the format string appropriately and
removing now-unnecessary calls to ``std::string::c_str()`` and
``std::string::data()``.

For example, it turns lines like

.. code-block:: c++

  return absl::StrFormat("The %s is %3d", description.c_str(), value);

into:

.. code-block:: c++

  return std::format("The {} is {:3}", description, value);

The check uses the same format-string-conversion algorithm as
`modernize-use-std-print <../modernize/use-std-print.html>`_ and its
shortcomings and behaviour in combination with macros are described in the
documentation for that check.

Options
-------

.. option:: StrictMode

   When `true`, the check will add casts when converting from variadic
   functions and printing signed or unsigned integer types (including
   fixed-width integer types from ``<cstdint>``, ``ptrdiff_t``, ``size_t``
   and ``ssize_t``) as the opposite signedness to ensure that the output
   would matches that of a simple wrapper for ``std::sprintf`` that
   accepted a C-style variable argument list. For example, with
   `StrictMode` enabled,

  .. code-block:: c++

    extern std::string strprintf(const char *format, ...);
    int i = -42;
    unsigned int u = 0xffffffff;
    return strprintf("%u %d\n", i, u);

  would be converted to

  .. code-block:: c++

    return std::format("{} {}\n", static_cast<unsigned int>(i), static_cast<int>(u));

  to ensure that the output will continue to be the unsigned representation
  of -42 and the signed representation of 0xffffffff (often 4294967254
  and -1 respectively). When `false` (which is the default), these casts
  will not be added which may cause a change in the output. Note that this
  option makes no difference for the default value of
  `StrFormatLikeFunctions` since ``absl::StrFormat`` takes a function
  parameter pack and is not a variadic function.

.. option:: StrFormatLikeFunctions

   A semicolon-separated list of (fully qualified) function names to
   replace, with the requirement that the first parameter contains the
   printf-style format string and the arguments to be formatted follow
   immediately afterwards. Qualified member function names are supported,
   but the replacement function name must be unqualified. The default value
   for this option is `absl::StrFormat`.

.. option:: ReplacementFormatFunction

   The function that will be used to replace the function set by the
   `StrFormatLikeFunctions` option rather than the default
   `std::format`. It is expected that the function provides an interface
   that is compatible with ``std::format``. A suitable candidate would be
   `fmt::format`.

.. option:: FormatHeader

   The header that must be included for the declaration of
   `ReplacementFormatFunction` so that a ``#include`` directive can be added if
   required. If `ReplacementFormatFunction` is `std::format` then this option will
   default to ``<format>``, otherwise this option will default to nothing
   and no ``#include`` directive will be added.

Commit message:

Added versions for clang-tidy check options

clang-tools-extra/docs/clang-tidy/checks/modernize/use-std-format.rst, after:

.. title:: clang-tidy - modernize-use-std-format

modernize-use-std-format
========================

Converts calls to ``absl::StrFormat``, or other functions via
configuration options, to C++20's ``std::format``, or another function
via a configuration option, modifying the format string appropriately and
removing now-unnecessary calls to ``std::string::c_str()`` and
``std::string::data()``.

For example, it turns lines like

.. code-block:: c++

  return absl::StrFormat("The %s is %3d", description.c_str(), value);

into:

.. code-block:: c++

  return std::format("The {} is {:3}", description, value);

The check uses the same format-string-conversion algorithm as
`modernize-use-std-print <../modernize/use-std-print.html>`_ and its
shortcomings and behaviour in combination with macros are described in the
documentation for that check.

Options
-------

.. option:: StrictMode (added in 19.1.0)

   When `true`, the check will add casts when converting from variadic
   functions and printing signed or unsigned integer types (including
   fixed-width integer types from ``<cstdint>``, ``ptrdiff_t``, ``size_t``
   and ``ssize_t``) as the opposite signedness to ensure that the output
   would matches that of a simple wrapper for ``std::sprintf`` that
   accepted a C-style variable argument list. For example, with
   `StrictMode` enabled,

  .. code-block:: c++

    extern std::string strprintf(const char *format, ...);
    int i = -42;
    unsigned int u = 0xffffffff;
    return strprintf("%u %d\n", i, u);

  would be converted to

  .. code-block:: c++

    return std::format("{} {}\n", static_cast<unsigned int>(i), static_cast<int>(u));

  to ensure that the output will continue to be the unsigned representation
  of -42 and the signed representation of 0xffffffff (often 4294967254
  and -1 respectively). When `false` (which is the default), these casts
  will not be added which may cause a change in the output. Note that this
  option makes no difference for the default value of
  `StrFormatLikeFunctions` since ``absl::StrFormat`` takes a function
  parameter pack and is not a variadic function.

.. option:: StrFormatLikeFunctions (added in 19.1.0)

   A semicolon-separated list of (fully qualified) function names to
   replace, with the requirement that the first parameter contains the
   printf-style format string and the arguments to be formatted follow
   immediately afterwards. Qualified member function names are supported,
   but the replacement function name must be unqualified. The default value
   for this option is `absl::StrFormat`.

.. option:: ReplacementFormatFunction (added in 19.1.0)

   The function that will be used to replace the function set by the
   `StrFormatLikeFunctions` option rather than the default
   `std::format`. It is expected that the function provides an interface
   that is compatible with ``std::format``. A suitable candidate would be
   `fmt::format`.

.. option:: FormatHeader (added in 19.1.0)

   The header that must be included for the declaration of
   `ReplacementFormatFunction` so that a ``#include`` directive can be added if
   required. If `ReplacementFormatFunction` is `std::format` then this option will
   default to ``<format>``, otherwise this option will default to nothing
   and no ``#include`` directive will be added.
