clang-tools-extra/docs/clang-tidy/checks/bugprone/narrowing-conversions.rst, before:

.. title:: clang-tidy - bugprone-narrowing-conversions

bugprone-narrowing-conversions
==============================

`cppcoreguidelines-narrowing-conversions` redirects here as an alias for this check.

Checks for silent narrowing conversions, e.g: ``int i = 0; i += 0.1;``. While
the issue is obvious in this former example, it might not be so in the
following: ``void MyClass::f(double d) { int_member_ += d; }``.

We flag narrowing conversions from:
 - an integer to a narrower integer (e.g. ``char`` to ``unsigned char``)
   if WarnOnIntegerNarrowingConversion Option is set,
 - an integer to a narrower floating-point (e.g. ``uint64_t`` to ``float``)
   if WarnOnIntegerToFloatingPointNarrowingConversion Option is set,
 - a floating-point to an integer (e.g. ``double`` to ``int``),
 - a floating-point to a narrower floating-point (e.g. ``double`` to ``float``)
   if WarnOnFloatingPointNarrowingConversion Option is set.

This check will flag:
 - All narrowing conversions that are not marked by an explicit cast (c-style or
   ``static_cast``). For example: ``int i = 0; i += 0.1;``,
   ``void f(int); f(0.1);``,
 - All applications of binary operators with a narrowing conversions.
   For example: ``int i; i+= 0.1;``.

Arithmetic with smaller integer types than ``int`` trigger implicit conversions,
as explained under `"Integral Promotion" on cppreference.com
<https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/implicit_conversion>`_.
This check diagnoses more instances of narrowing than the compiler warning
`-Wconversion` does. The example below demonstrates this behavior.

.. code-block:: c++

  // The following function definition demonstrates usage of arithmetic with
  // integer types smaller than `int` and how the narrowing conversion happens
  // implicitly.
  void computation(short argument1, short argument2) {
    // Arithmetic written by humans:
    short result = argument1 + argument2;
    // Arithmetic actually performed by C++:
    short result = static_cast<short>(static_cast<int>(argument1) + static_cast<int>(argument2));
  }

  void recommended_resolution(short argument1, short argument2) {
    short result = argument1 + argument2;
    //           ^ warning: narrowing conversion from 'int' to signed type 'short' is implementation-defined

    // The cppcoreguidelines recommend to resolve this issue by using the GSL
    // in one of two ways. Either by a cast that throws if a loss of precision
    // would occur.
    short result = gsl::narrow<short>(argument1 + argument2);
    // Or it can be resolved without checking the result risking invalid results.
    short result = gsl::narrow_cast<short>(argument1 + argument2);

    // A classical `static_cast` will silence the warning as well if the GSL
    // is not available.
    short result = static_cast<short>(argument1 + argument2);
  }

Options
-------

.. option:: WarnOnIntegerNarrowingConversion

    When `true`, the check will warn on narrowing integer conversion
    (e.g. ``int`` to ``size_t``). `true` by default.

.. option:: WarnOnIntegerToFloatingPointNarrowingConversion

    When `true`, the check will warn on narrowing integer to floating-point
    conversion (e.g. ``size_t`` to ``double``). `true` by default.

.. option:: WarnOnFloatingPointNarrowingConversion

    When `true`, the check will warn on narrowing floating point conversion
    (e.g. ``double`` to ``float``). `true` by default.

.. option:: WarnWithinTemplateInstantiation

    When `true`, the check will warn on narrowing conversions within template
    instantiations. `false` by default.

.. option:: WarnOnEquivalentBitWidth

    When `true`, the check will warn on narrowing conversions that arise from
    casting between types of equivalent bit width. (e.g.
    `int n = uint(0);` or `long long n = double(0);`) `true` by default.

.. option:: IgnoreConversionFromTypes

   Narrowing conversions from any type in this semicolon-separated list will be
   ignored. This may be useful to weed out commonly occurring, but less commonly
   problematic assignments such as `int n = std::vector<char>().size();` or
   `int n = std::difference(it1, it2);`. The default list is empty, but one
   suggested list for a legacy codebase would be
   `size_t;ptrdiff_t;size_type;difference_type`.

.. option:: PedanticMode

    When `true`, the check will warn on assigning a floating point constant
    to an integer value even if the floating point value is exactly
    representable in the destination type (e.g. ``int i = 1.0;``).
    `false` by default.

FAQ
---

 - What does "narrowing conversion from 'int' to 'float'" mean?

An IEEE754 Floating Point number can represent all integer values in the range
[-2^PrecisionBits, 2^PrecisionBits] where PrecisionBits is the number of bits in
the mantissa.

For ``float`` this would be [-2^23, 2^23], where ``int`` can represent values in
the range [-2^31, 2^31-1].

 - What does "implementation-defined" mean?

You may have encountered messages like "narrowing conversion from 'unsigned int'
to signed type 'int' is implementation-defined".
The C/C++ standard does not mandate two's complement for signed integers, and so
the compiler is free to define what the semantics are for converting an unsigned
integer to signed integer. Clang's implementation uses the two's complement
format.

Commit message:

Added versions for clang-tidy check options

clang-tools-extra/docs/clang-tidy/checks/bugprone/narrowing-conversions.rst, after:

.. title:: clang-tidy - bugprone-narrowing-conversions

bugprone-narrowing-conversions
==============================

`cppcoreguidelines-narrowing-conversions` redirects here as an alias for this check.

Checks for silent narrowing conversions, e.g: ``int i = 0; i += 0.1;``. While
the issue is obvious in this former example, it might not be so in the
following: ``void MyClass::f(double d) { int_member_ += d; }``.

We flag narrowing conversions from:
 - an integer to a narrower integer (e.g. ``char`` to ``unsigned char``)
   if WarnOnIntegerNarrowingConversion Option is set,
 - an integer to a narrower floating-point (e.g. ``uint64_t`` to ``float``)
   if WarnOnIntegerToFloatingPointNarrowingConversion Option is set,
 - a floating-point to an integer (e.g. ``double`` to ``int``),
 - a floating-point to a narrower floating-point (e.g. ``double`` to ``float``)
   if WarnOnFloatingPointNarrowingConversion Option is set.

This check will flag:
 - All narrowing conversions that are not marked by an explicit cast (c-style or
   ``static_cast``). For example: ``int i = 0; i += 0.1;``,
   ``void f(int); f(0.1);``,
 - All applications of binary operators with a narrowing conversions.
   For example: ``int i; i+= 0.1;``.

Arithmetic with smaller integer types than ``int`` trigger implicit conversions,
as explained under `"Integral Promotion" on cppreference.com
<https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/implicit_conversion>`_.
This check diagnoses more instances of narrowing than the compiler warning
`-Wconversion` does. The example below demonstrates this behavior.

.. code-block:: c++

  // The following function definition demonstrates usage of arithmetic with
  // integer types smaller than `int` and how the narrowing conversion happens
  // implicitly.
  void computation(short argument1, short argument2) {
    // Arithmetic written by humans:
    short result = argument1 + argument2;
    // Arithmetic actually performed by C++:
    short result = static_cast<short>(static_cast<int>(argument1) + static_cast<int>(argument2));
  }

  void recommended_resolution(short argument1, short argument2) {
    short result = argument1 + argument2;
    //           ^ warning: narrowing conversion from 'int' to signed type 'short' is implementation-defined

    // The cppcoreguidelines recommend to resolve this issue by using the GSL
    // in one of two ways. Either by a cast that throws if a loss of precision
    // would occur.
    short result = gsl::narrow<short>(argument1 + argument2);
    // Or it can be resolved without checking the result risking invalid results.
    short result = gsl::narrow_cast<short>(argument1 + argument2);

    // A classical `static_cast` will silence the warning as well if the GSL
    // is not available.
    short result = static_cast<short>(argument1 + argument2);
  }

Options
-------

.. option:: WarnOnIntegerNarrowingConversion (added in 20.1.0)

    When `true`, the check will warn on narrowing integer conversion
    (e.g. ``int`` to ``size_t``). `true` by default.

.. option:: WarnOnIntegerToFloatingPointNarrowingConversion (added in 20.1.0)

    When `true`, the check will warn on narrowing integer to floating-point
    conversion (e.g. ``size_t`` to ``double``). `true` by default.

.. option:: WarnOnFloatingPointNarrowingConversion (added in 20.1.0)

    When `true`, the check will warn on narrowing floating point conversion
    (e.g. ``double`` to ``float``). `true` by default.

.. option:: WarnWithinTemplateInstantiation (added in 20.1.0)

    When `true`, the check will warn on narrowing conversions within template
    instantiations. `false` by default.

.. option:: WarnOnEquivalentBitWidth (added in 20.1.0)

    When `true`, the check will warn on narrowing conversions that arise from
    casting between types of equivalent bit width. (e.g.
    `int n = uint(0);` or `long long n = double(0);`) `true` by default.

.. option:: IgnoreConversionFromTypes (added in 20.1.0)

   Narrowing conversions from any type in this semicolon-separated list will be
   ignored. This may be useful to weed out commonly occurring, but less commonly
   problematic assignments such as `int n = std::vector<char>().size();` or
   `int n = std::difference(it1, it2);`. The default list is empty, but one
   suggested list for a legacy codebase would be
   `size_t;ptrdiff_t;size_type;difference_type`.

.. option:: PedanticMode (added in 20.1.0)

    When `true`, the check will warn on assigning a floating point constant
    to an integer value even if the floating point value is exactly
    representable in the destination type (e.g. ``int i = 1.0;``).
    `false` by default.

FAQ
---

 - What does "narrowing conversion from 'int' to 'float'" mean?

An IEEE754 Floating Point number can represent all integer values in the range
[-2^PrecisionBits, 2^PrecisionBits] where PrecisionBits is the number of bits in
the mantissa.

For ``float`` this would be [-2^23, 2^23], where ``int`` can represent values in
the range [-2^31, 2^31-1].

 - What does "implementation-defined" mean?

You may have encountered messages like "narrowing conversion from 'unsigned int'
to signed type 'int' is implementation-defined".
The C/C++ standard does not mandate two's complement for signed integers, and so
the compiler is free to define what the semantics are for converting an unsigned
integer to signed integer. Clang's implementation uses the two's complement
format.
