clang-tools-extra/docs/clang-tidy/checks/performance/unnecessary-value-param.rst, before:

.. title:: clang-tidy - performance-unnecessary-value-param

performance-unnecessary-value-param
===================================

Flags value parameter declarations of expensive to copy types that are copied
for each invocation but it would suffice to pass them by const reference.

The check is only applied to parameters of types that are expensive to copy
which means they are not trivially copyable or have a non-trivial copy
constructor or destructor.

To ensure that it is safe to replace the value parameter with a const reference
the following heuristic is employed:

1. the parameter is const qualified;
2. the parameter is not const, but only const methods or operators are invoked
   on it, or it is used as const reference or value argument in constructors or
   function calls.

Example:

.. code-block:: c++

  void f(const string Value) {
    // The warning will suggest making Value a reference.
  }

  void g(ExpensiveToCopy Value) {
    // The warning will suggest making Value a const reference.
    Value.ConstMethd();
    ExpensiveToCopy Copy(Value);
  }

If the parameter is not const, only copied or assigned once and has a
non-trivial move-constructor or move-assignment operator respectively the check
will suggest to move it.

Example:

.. code-block:: c++

  void setValue(string Value) {
    Field = Value;
  }

Will become:

.. code-block:: c++

  #include <utility>

  void setValue(string Value) {
    Field = std::move(Value);
  }

Because the fix-it needs to change the signature of the function, it may break
builds if the function is used in multiple translation units or some codes
depends on function signatures.

Options
-------

.. option:: IncludeStyle

   A string specifying which include-style is used, `llvm` or `google`. Default
   is `llvm`.

.. option:: AllowedTypes

   A semicolon-separated list of names of types allowed to be passed by value.
   Regular expressions are accepted, e.g. ``[Rr]ef(erence)?$`` matches every
   type with suffix ``Ref``, ``ref``, ``Reference`` and ``reference``. The
   default is empty. If a name in the list contains the sequence `::`, it is
   matched against the qualified type name (i.e. ``namespace::Type``),
   otherwise it is matched against only the type name (i.e. ``Type``).

.. option:: IgnoreCoroutines

   A boolean specifying whether the check should suggest passing parameters by
   reference in coroutines. Passing parameters by reference in coroutines may
   not be safe, please see :doc:`cppcoreguidelines-avoid-reference-coroutine-parameters <../cppcoreguidelines/avoid-reference-coroutine-parameters>`
   for more information. Default is `true`.

Commit message:

Added versions for clang-tidy check options

clang-tools-extra/docs/clang-tidy/checks/performance/unnecessary-value-param.rst, after:

.. title:: clang-tidy - performance-unnecessary-value-param

performance-unnecessary-value-param
===================================

Flags value parameter declarations of expensive to copy types that are copied
for each invocation but it would suffice to pass them by const reference.

The check is only applied to parameters of types that are expensive to copy
which means they are not trivially copyable or have a non-trivial copy
constructor or destructor.

To ensure that it is safe to replace the value parameter with a const reference
the following heuristic is employed:

1. the parameter is const qualified;
2. the parameter is not const, but only const methods or operators are invoked
   on it, or it is used as const reference or value argument in constructors or
   function calls.

Example:

.. code-block:: c++

  void f(const string Value) {
    // The warning will suggest making Value a reference.
  }

  void g(ExpensiveToCopy Value) {
    // The warning will suggest making Value a const reference.
    Value.ConstMethd();
    ExpensiveToCopy Copy(Value);
  }

If the parameter is not const, only copied or assigned once and has a
non-trivial move-constructor or move-assignment operator respectively the check
will suggest to move it.

Example:

.. code-block:: c++

  void setValue(string Value) {
    Field = Value;
  }

Will become:

.. code-block:: c++

  #include <utility>

  void setValue(string Value) {
    Field = std::move(Value);
  }

Because the fix-it needs to change the signature of the function, it may break
builds if the function is used in multiple translation units or some codes
depends on function signatures.

Options
-------

.. option:: IncludeStyle (added in 15.0.0)

   A string specifying which include-style is used, `llvm` or `google`. Default
   is `llvm`.

.. option:: AllowedTypes (added in 15.0.0)

   A semicolon-separated list of names of types allowed to be passed by value.
   Regular expressions are accepted, e.g. ``[Rr]ef(erence)?$`` matches every
   type with suffix ``Ref``, ``ref``, ``Reference`` and ``reference``. The
   default is empty. If a name in the list contains the sequence `::`, it is
   matched against the qualified type name (i.e. ``namespace::Type``),
   otherwise it is matched against only the type name (i.e. ``Type``).

.. option:: IgnoreCoroutines (added in 21.1.0)

   A boolean specifying whether the check should suggest passing parameters by
   reference in coroutines. Passing parameters by reference in coroutines may
   not be safe, please see :doc:`cppcoreguidelines-avoid-reference-coroutine-parameters <../cppcoreguidelines/avoid-reference-coroutine-parameters>`
   for more information. Default is `true`.
