clang-tools-extra/docs/clang-tidy/checks/llvm/namespace-comment.rst, before:

.. title:: clang-tidy - llvm-namespace-comment

llvm-namespace-comment
======================

`google-readability-namespace-comments` redirects here as an alias for this
check.

Checks that long namespaces have a closing comment.

https://llvm.org/docs/CodingStandards.html#namespace-indentation

https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html#Namespaces

.. code-block:: c++

  namespace n1 {
  void f();
  }

  // becomes

  namespace n1 {
  void f();
  }  // namespace n1


Options
-------

.. option:: ShortNamespaceLines

   Requires the closing brace of the namespace definition to be followed by a
   closing comment if the body of the namespace has more than
   `ShortNamespaceLines` lines of code. The value is an unsigned integer that
   defaults to `1U`.

.. option:: SpacesBeforeComments

   An unsigned integer specifying the number of spaces before the comment
   closing a namespace definition. Default is `1U`.

.. option:: AllowOmittingNamespaceComments

   When `true`, the check will accept if no namespace comment is present.
   The check will only fail if the specified namespace comment is different
   than expected. Default is `false`.

Commit message:

Added versions for clang-tidy check options

clang-tools-extra/docs/clang-tidy/checks/llvm/namespace-comment.rst, after:

.. title:: clang-tidy - llvm-namespace-comment

llvm-namespace-comment
======================

`google-readability-namespace-comments` redirects here as an alias for this
check.

Checks that long namespaces have a closing comment.

https://llvm.org/docs/CodingStandards.html#namespace-indentation

https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html#Namespaces

.. code-block:: c++

  namespace n1 {
  void f();
  }

  // becomes

  namespace n1 {
  void f();
  }  // namespace n1


Options
-------

.. option:: ShortNamespaceLines (added in 15.0.0)

   Requires the closing brace of the namespace definition to be followed by a
   closing comment if the body of the namespace has more than
   `ShortNamespaceLines` lines of code. The value is an unsigned integer that
   defaults to `1U`.

.. option:: SpacesBeforeComments (added in 15.0.0)

   An unsigned integer specifying the number of spaces before the comment
   closing a namespace definition. Default is `1U`.

.. option:: AllowOmittingNamespaceComments (added in 21.1.0)

   When `true`, the check will accept if no namespace comment is present.
   The check will only fail if the specified namespace comment is different
   than expected. Default is `false`.
