clang-tools-extra/docs/clang-tidy/checks/boost/use-ranges.rst, before:

.. title:: clang-tidy - boost-use-ranges

boost-use-ranges
================

Detects calls to standard library iterator algorithms that could be replaced
with a Boost ranges version instead.

Example
-------

.. code-block:: c++

  auto Iter1 = std::find(Items.begin(), Items.end(), 0);
  auto AreSame = std::equal(Items1.cbegin(), Items1.cend(), std::begin(Items2),
                            std::end(Items2));


Transforms to:

.. code-block:: c++

  auto Iter1 = boost::range::find(Items, 0);
  auto AreSame = boost::range::equal(Items1, Items2);

Supported algorithms
--------------------

Calls to the following std library algorithms are checked:

``std::accumulate``,
``std::adjacent_difference``,
``std::adjacent_find``,
``std::all_of``,
``std::any_of``,
``std::binary_search``,
``std::copy_backward``,
``std::copy_if``,
``std::copy``,
``std::count_if``,
``std::count``,
``std::equal_range``,
``std::equal``,
``std::fill``,
``std::find_end``,
``std::find_first_of``,
``std::find_if_not``,
``std::find_if``,
``std::find``,
``std::for_each``,
``std::generate``,
``std::includes``,
``std::iota``,
``std::is_partitioned``,
``std::is_permutation``,
``std::is_sorted_until``,
``std::is_sorted``,
``std::lexicographical_compare``,
``std::lower_bound``,
``std::make_heap``,
``std::max_element``,
``std::merge``,
``std::min_element``,
``std::mismatch``,
``std::next_permutation``,
``std::none_of``,
``std::partial_sum``,
``std::partial_sort_copy``,
``std::partition_copy``,
``std::partition_point``,
``std::partition``,
``std::pop_heap``,
``std::prev_permutation``,
``std::push_heap``,
``std::random_shuffle``,
``std::reduce``,
``std::remove_copy_if``,
``std::remove_copy``,
``std::remove_if``,
``std::remove``,
``std::replace_copy_if``,
``std::replace_copy``,
``std::replace_if``,
``std::replace``,
``std::reverse_copy``,
``std::reverse``,
``std::search``,
``std::set_difference``,
``std::set_intersection``,
``std::set_symmetric_difference``,
``std::set_union``,
``std::sort_heap``,
``std::sort``,
``std::stable_partition``,
``std::stable_sort``,
``std::transform``,
``std::unique_copy``,
``std::unique``,
``std::upper_bound``.

The check will also look for the following functions from the
``boost::algorithm`` namespace:

``all_of_equal``,
``any_of_equal``,
``any_of``,
``apply_permutation``,
``apply_reverse_permutation``,
``clamp_range``,
``copy_if_until``,
``copy_if_while``,
``copy_if``,
``copy_until``,
``copy_while``,
``find_backward``,
``find_if_backward``,
``find_if_not_backward``,
``find_if_not``,
``find_not_backward``,
``hex_lower``,
``hex``,
``iota``, ``all_of``,
``is_decreasing``,
``is_increasing``,
``is_palindrome``,
``is_partitioned_until``,
``is_partitioned``,
``is_permutation``,
``is_sorted_until``,
``is_sorted``,
``is_strictly_decreasing``,
``is_strictly_increasing``,
``none_of_equal``,
``none_of``,
``one_of_equal``,
``one_of``,
``partition_copy``,
``partition_point``,
``reduce``,
``unhex``.

Reverse Iteration
-----------------

If calls are made using reverse iterators on containers, The code will be
fixed using the ``boost::adaptors::reverse`` adaptor.

.. code-block:: c++
  
  auto AreSame = std::equal(Items1.rbegin(), Items1.rend(),
                            std::crbegin(Items2), std::crend(Items2));

Transforms to:

.. code-block:: c++

  auto AreSame = boost::range::equal(boost::adaptors::reverse(Items1),
                                     boost::adaptors::reverse(Items2));

Options
-------

.. option:: IncludeStyle

   A string specifying which include-style is used, `llvm` or `google`. Default
   is `llvm`.

.. option:: IncludeBoostSystem
   
   If `true` (default value) the boost headers are included as system headers
   with angle brackets (`#include <boost.hpp>`), otherwise quotes are used
   (`#include "boost.hpp"`).

.. option:: UseReversePipe

  When `true` (default `false`), fixes which involve reverse ranges will use the
  pipe adaptor syntax instead of the function syntax.

  .. code-block:: c++

    std::find(Items.rbegin(), Items.rend(), 0);

  Transforms to:

  .. code-block:: c++

    boost::range::find(Items | boost::adaptors::reversed, 0);

Commit message:

Added versions for clang-tidy check options

clang-tools-extra/docs/clang-tidy/checks/boost/use-ranges.rst, after:

.. title:: clang-tidy - boost-use-ranges

boost-use-ranges
================

Detects calls to standard library iterator algorithms that could be replaced
with a Boost ranges version instead.

Example
-------

.. code-block:: c++

  auto Iter1 = std::find(Items.begin(), Items.end(), 0);
  auto AreSame = std::equal(Items1.cbegin(), Items1.cend(), std::begin(Items2),
                            std::end(Items2));


Transforms to:

.. code-block:: c++

  auto Iter1 = boost::range::find(Items, 0);
  auto AreSame = boost::range::equal(Items1, Items2);

Supported algorithms
--------------------

Calls to the following std library algorithms are checked:

``std::accumulate``,
``std::adjacent_difference``,
``std::adjacent_find``,
``std::all_of``,
``std::any_of``,
``std::binary_search``,
``std::copy_backward``,
``std::copy_if``,
``std::copy``,
``std::count_if``,
``std::count``,
``std::equal_range``,
``std::equal``,
``std::fill``,
``std::find_end``,
``std::find_first_of``,
``std::find_if_not``,
``std::find_if``,
``std::find``,
``std::for_each``,
``std::generate``,
``std::includes``,
``std::iota``,
``std::is_partitioned``,
``std::is_permutation``,
``std::is_sorted_until``,
``std::is_sorted``,
``std::lexicographical_compare``,
``std::lower_bound``,
``std::make_heap``,
``std::max_element``,
``std::merge``,
``std::min_element``,
``std::mismatch``,
``std::next_permutation``,
``std::none_of``,
``std::partial_sum``,
``std::partial_sort_copy``,
``std::partition_copy``,
``std::partition_point``,
``std::partition``,
``std::pop_heap``,
``std::prev_permutation``,
``std::push_heap``,
``std::random_shuffle``,
``std::reduce``,
``std::remove_copy_if``,
``std::remove_copy``,
``std::remove_if``,
``std::remove``,
``std::replace_copy_if``,
``std::replace_copy``,
``std::replace_if``,
``std::replace``,
``std::reverse_copy``,
``std::reverse``,
``std::search``,
``std::set_difference``,
``std::set_intersection``,
``std::set_symmetric_difference``,
``std::set_union``,
``std::sort_heap``,
``std::sort``,
``std::stable_partition``,
``std::stable_sort``,
``std::transform``,
``std::unique_copy``,
``std::unique``,
``std::upper_bound``.

The check will also look for the following functions from the
``boost::algorithm`` namespace:

``all_of_equal``,
``any_of_equal``,
``any_of``,
``apply_permutation``,
``apply_reverse_permutation``,
``clamp_range``,
``copy_if_until``,
``copy_if_while``,
``copy_if``,
``copy_until``,
``copy_while``,
``find_backward``,
``find_if_backward``,
``find_if_not_backward``,
``find_if_not``,
``find_not_backward``,
``hex_lower``,
``hex``,
``iota``, ``all_of``,
``is_decreasing``,
``is_increasing``,
``is_palindrome``,
``is_partitioned_until``,
``is_partitioned``,
``is_permutation``,
``is_sorted_until``,
``is_sorted``,
``is_strictly_decreasing``,
``is_strictly_increasing``,
``none_of_equal``,
``none_of``,
``one_of_equal``,
``one_of``,
``partition_copy``,
``partition_point``,
``reduce``,
``unhex``.

Reverse Iteration
-----------------

If calls are made using reverse iterators on containers, The code will be
fixed using the ``boost::adaptors::reverse`` adaptor.

.. code-block:: c++
  
  auto AreSame = std::equal(Items1.rbegin(), Items1.rend(),
                            std::crbegin(Items2), std::crend(Items2));

Transforms to:

.. code-block:: c++

  auto AreSame = boost::range::equal(boost::adaptors::reverse(Items1),
                                     boost::adaptors::reverse(Items2));

Options
-------

.. option:: IncludeStyle (added in 19.1.0)

   A string specifying which include-style is used, `llvm` or `google`. Default
   is `llvm`.

.. option:: IncludeBoostSystem (added in 19.1.0)
   
   If `true` (default value) the boost headers are included as system headers
   with angle brackets (`#include <boost.hpp>`), otherwise quotes are used
   (`#include "boost.hpp"`).

.. option:: UseReversePipe (added in 19.1.0)

  When `true` (default `false`), fixes which involve reverse ranges will use the
  pipe adaptor syntax instead of the function syntax.

  .. code-block:: c++

    std::find(Items.rbegin(), Items.rend(), 0);

  Transforms to:

  .. code-block:: c++

    boost::range::find(Items | boost::adaptors::reversed, 0);
