clang-tools-extra/docs/clang-tidy/checks/readability/qualified-auto.rst, before:

.. title:: clang-tidy - readability-qualified-auto

readability-qualified-auto
==========================

Adds pointer qualifications to ``auto``-typed variables that are deduced to
pointers.

`LLVM Coding Standards <https://llvm.org/docs/CodingStandards.html#beware-unnecessary-copies-with-auto>`_
advises to make it obvious if a ``auto`` typed variable is a pointer. This
check will transform ``auto`` to ``auto *`` when the type is deduced to be a
pointer.

.. code-block:: c++

  for (auto Data : MutatablePtrContainer) {
    change(*Data);
  }
  for (auto Data : ConstantPtrContainer) {
    observe(*Data);
  }

Would be transformed into:

.. code-block:: c++

  for (auto *Data : MutatablePtrContainer) {
    change(*Data);
  }
  for (const auto *Data : ConstantPtrContainer) {
    observe(*Data);
  }

Note ``const`` ``volatile`` qualified types will retain their ``const`` and
``volatile`` qualifiers. Pointers to pointers will not be fully qualified.

.. code-block:: c++

  const auto Foo = cast<int *>(Baz1);
  const auto Bar = cast<const int *>(Baz2);
  volatile auto FooBar = cast<int *>(Baz3);
  auto BarFoo = cast<int **>(Baz4);

Would be transformed into:

.. code-block:: c++

  auto *const Foo = cast<int *>(Baz1);
  const auto *const Bar = cast<const int *>(Baz2);
  auto *volatile FooBar = cast<int *>(Baz3);
  auto *BarFoo = cast<int **>(Baz4);

Options
-------

.. option:: AddConstToQualified

   When set to `true` the check will add const qualifiers variables defined as
   ``auto *`` or ``auto &`` when applicable.
   Default value is `true`.

.. code-block:: c++

   auto Foo1 = cast<const int *>(Bar1);
   auto *Foo2 = cast<const int *>(Bar2);
   auto &Foo3 = cast<const int &>(Bar3);

If AddConstToQualified is set to `false`, it will be transformed into:

.. code-block:: c++

   const auto *Foo1 = cast<const int *>(Bar1);
   auto *Foo2 = cast<const int *>(Bar2);
   auto &Foo3 = cast<const int &>(Bar3);

Otherwise it will be transformed into:

.. code-block:: c++

   const auto *Foo1 = cast<const int *>(Bar1);
   const auto *Foo2 = cast<const int *>(Bar2);
   const auto &Foo3 = cast<const int &>(Bar3);

Note in the LLVM alias, the default value is `false`.

.. option:: AllowedTypes

  A semicolon-separated list of names of types to ignore when ``auto`` is
  deduced to that type or a pointer to that type. Note that this distinguishes
  type aliases from the original type, so specifying e.g. ``my_int`` will not
  suppress reports about ``int`` even if it is defined as a ``typedef`` alias
  for ``int``. Regular expressions are accepted, e.g. ``[Rr]ef(erence)?$``
  matches every type with suffix ``Ref``, ``ref``, ``Reference`` and
  ``reference``. If a name in the list contains the sequence `::` it is matched
  against the qualified type name (i.e. ``namespace::Type``), otherwise it is
  matched against only the type name (i.e. ``Type``). E.g. to suppress reports
  for ``std::array`` iterators use `std::array<.*>::(const_)?iterator` string.
  The default is an empty string.

.. option:: IgnoreAliasing

  If set to `true` the check will use the underlying type to determine the type
  that ``auto`` is deduced to. If set to `false` the check will not look beyond
  the first type alias.
  Default value is `true`.

  .. code-block:: c++

    using IntPtr = int*;
    IntPtr foo();

    auto bar = foo();

  If :option:`IgnoreAliasing` is set to `true`, it will be transformed into:

  .. code-block:: c++

    auto *bar = foo();

  Otherwise no changes will occur.


Limitations
-----------

When :option:`IgnoreAliasing` is set to `false`, there are cases where
Clang has not preserved the type alias and the underlying type will be used so
false positives may occur.

For example:

.. code-block:: c++

  using IntPtr = int *;

  void loopPtr(const std::vector<IntPtr> &VectorIntPtr) {

    // May fail for IgnoreAliasing==false as AST does not have the 'IntPtr'
    for (auto Data : VectorIntPtr) {
    }
  }

Commit message:

Added versions for clang-tidy check options

clang-tools-extra/docs/clang-tidy/checks/readability/qualified-auto.rst, after:

.. title:: clang-tidy - readability-qualified-auto

readability-qualified-auto
==========================

Adds pointer qualifications to ``auto``-typed variables that are deduced to
pointers.

`LLVM Coding Standards <https://llvm.org/docs/CodingStandards.html#beware-unnecessary-copies-with-auto>`_
advises to make it obvious if a ``auto`` typed variable is a pointer. This
check will transform ``auto`` to ``auto *`` when the type is deduced to be a
pointer.

.. code-block:: c++

  for (auto Data : MutatablePtrContainer) {
    change(*Data);
  }
  for (auto Data : ConstantPtrContainer) {
    observe(*Data);
  }

Would be transformed into:

.. code-block:: c++

  for (auto *Data : MutatablePtrContainer) {
    change(*Data);
  }
  for (const auto *Data : ConstantPtrContainer) {
    observe(*Data);
  }

Note ``const`` ``volatile`` qualified types will retain their ``const`` and
``volatile`` qualifiers. Pointers to pointers will not be fully qualified.

.. code-block:: c++

  const auto Foo = cast<int *>(Baz1);
  const auto Bar = cast<const int *>(Baz2);
  volatile auto FooBar = cast<int *>(Baz3);
  auto BarFoo = cast<int **>(Baz4);

Would be transformed into:

.. code-block:: c++

  auto *const Foo = cast<int *>(Baz1);
  const auto *const Bar = cast<const int *>(Baz2);
  auto *volatile FooBar = cast<int *>(Baz3);
  auto *BarFoo = cast<int **>(Baz4);

Options
-------

.. option:: AddConstToQualified (added in 15.0.0)

   When set to `true` the check will add const qualifiers variables defined as
   ``auto *`` or ``auto &`` when applicable.
   Default value is `true`.

.. code-block:: c++

   auto Foo1 = cast<const int *>(Bar1);
   auto *Foo2 = cast<const int *>(Bar2);
   auto &Foo3 = cast<const int &>(Bar3);

If AddConstToQualified is set to `false`, it will be transformed into:

.. code-block:: c++

   const auto *Foo1 = cast<const int *>(Bar1);
   auto *Foo2 = cast<const int *>(Bar2);
   auto &Foo3 = cast<const int &>(Bar3);

Otherwise it will be transformed into:

.. code-block:: c++

   const auto *Foo1 = cast<const int *>(Bar1);
   const auto *Foo2 = cast<const int *>(Bar2);
   const auto &Foo3 = cast<const int &>(Bar3);

Note in the LLVM alias, the default value is `false`.

.. option:: AllowedTypes (added in 21.1.0)

  A semicolon-separated list of names of types to ignore when ``auto`` is
  deduced to that type or a pointer to that type. Note that this distinguishes
  type aliases from the original type, so specifying e.g. ``my_int`` will not
  suppress reports about ``int`` even if it is defined as a ``typedef`` alias
  for ``int``. Regular expressions are accepted, e.g. ``[Rr]ef(erence)?$``
  matches every type with suffix ``Ref``, ``ref``, ``Reference`` and
  ``reference``. If a name in the list contains the sequence `::` it is matched
  against the qualified type name (i.e. ``namespace::Type``), otherwise it is
  matched against only the type name (i.e. ``Type``). E.g. to suppress reports
  for ``std::array`` iterators use `std::array<.*>::(const_)?iterator` string.
  The default is an empty string.

.. option:: IgnoreAliasing (added in 22.0.0)

  If set to `true` the check will use the underlying type to determine the type
  that ``auto`` is deduced to. If set to `false` the check will not look beyond
  the first type alias.
  Default value is `true`.

  .. code-block:: c++

    using IntPtr = int*;
    IntPtr foo();

    auto bar = foo();

  If :option:`IgnoreAliasing` is set to `true`, it will be transformed into:

  .. code-block:: c++

    auto *bar = foo();

  Otherwise no changes will occur.


Limitations
-----------

When :option:`IgnoreAliasing` is set to `false`, there are cases where
Clang has not preserved the type alias and the underlying type will be used so
false positives may occur.

For example:

.. code-block:: c++

  using IntPtr = int *;

  void loopPtr(const std::vector<IntPtr> &VectorIntPtr) {

    // May fail for IgnoreAliasing==false as AST does not have the 'IntPtr'
    for (auto Data : VectorIntPtr) {
    }
  }
